# Agenda &mdash; DIDComm User Group Meeting, 2022-06-29

This meeting uses [UnSync conventions](https://hackmd.io/@dhh1128/Sk5_Gb2J9) and takes place on our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/eNN4Wns6Jb); transcript of actual meeting chat published [here](202?-??-??-transcript.md).
[ [charter](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/didcomm-usergroup/tree/main/charter.md) | [meeting archive](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/didcomm-usergroup/tree/main/meetings/) |  [schedule](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/didcomm-usergroup/tree/main/schedule.md) ]

<hr>

### 1. First item of business: say "hi" on chat
Nothing fancy needed; just a wave. This helps us tell whether we have a quorum, interpret silence, hold people accountable, and know who we're collaborating with.

### 2. General Announcements

We're heading into summer vacation and holiday season. Since UnSyncs are more flexible than ordinary meetings, we plan to just continue the rhythm. However, I (Daniel H) will be on vacation and traveling abroad during both of the next 2 UnSync times. Does anybody else want to volunteer to kick off the UnSyncs?

### 3. Follow-up on action items

### 4. AIP 3 and the push for protocols

DIDComm v1 gained a lot of gravitas when many vendors committed to implement an interoperable snapshot. I believe we had 8 or 9 that ultimately released stacks that worked together.

These vendors came together in part because there was a cluster of useful protocols that worked together.

I think DIDComm v2 needs something similar. The most logical thing would be to begin pushing for a new AIP that is DIDComm v2-centric. It should include the protocols that are part of the v2 spec, plus the work on WACI that gives us credentials. We should probably add a few other protocols as well.

Is there anybody who attends the Aries meetings (when are they? I've lost track...) where AIPs are typically proposed, that could put forward a proposal for AIP 3 and champion it on our behalf? Are there other forums where we should also propose/champion the AIP? What protocols should we add to the basic set I proposed above? How about, for example, the stuff @Telegramsam has been working on to allow rich chat? 

>**Proposed closure**: discuss on chat.

### 5. Email transport extension

I proposed a [set of conventions for transporting DIDComm over email](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/didcomm-messaging/blob/main/extensions/email_transport/main.md). Would love feedback.

>**Proposed closure**: have a look, if you're interested.

### 6. Bluetooth transport extension

Some excellent work has been done on explaining how we can move [DIDComm over BLE](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/didcomm-bluetooth/blob/main/spec.md). Is anyone interested in submitting a formal extension to the DIDComm WG? It wouldn't have to be very big; the hyperlinked doc already answers most of the questions. I think with a page or less, we could answer the few questions that the other doc leaves open, specify the format for `serviceEndpoint`, and be done. 

>**Proposed closure**: if interested, please volunteer on chat.

### 9. Last item of business: feedback

Did you think this meeting was effective? How could we improve?

>**Proposed closure**: Please leave your ideas in chat.
